# FlexMeasures TSC Meeting - 2022-06-16 17:00 CET


# Attendance

## Voting Members

- [ ] Nicolas Höning
- [ ] Felix Claessen

## Other Attendees

- Crystal Soo
- Kenneth Maate
- Federico Aleotti


## Agenda

- Intro
- Tutorial
- Roadmap
  - Annotation Feature (almost done)
  - Optimizing for self-consumption
  - Vision to cut down developer time on all levels of app development
- Q&A 


## The new annotation feature

Contextual information with explanatory power for the underlying time series data.
Can be used to store e.g. team planning (which operator team had their shift at the time), operator notes, user feedback and automated labels.
Helpful to understand what was going on, and also very useful for applying machine learning techniques to the data.
We can now add it through the CLI, and see it in the UI. We're also working on an API endpoint for adding and retrieving annotations.


## Roadmap adjustments for optimizing for self-consumption:

- [Already possible] Post solar forecasts / self-consumption forecasts
- [Q3 -> Q2 2022] Scheduler takes into account solar forecasts / self-consumption forecasts
- [Q3 -> Q2 2022] Scheduler takes into account asymmetric tariffs (e.g. to support cases where taxes apply only to consumption)
- [Q3 2022] Trigger forecasts with dedicated API endpoint
- [Q3 2022] Ability to plug in your own custom forecast models
- [Not planned -> Q3 2022] Scheduler takes into account usage-dependent device depreciation


## Discussion / Action Items

- Crystal: How often need to cut developer time? How often are schedules needed?
- Nicolas: Some use cases once per day, other use cases circumstance change more often (once every hour is not unusual). A lot of startups need to reinvent this part: save a couple of weeks for all of them, that really helps.
- We discussed the distinciton between industrial and built environment applications.
- [ ] What does the onion (see slides about cutting developer time) represent? A: All necessary levels of app development in a modern real-time energy flexibility service.
- [ ] The onion is also not communicating well enough where FlexMeasures comes in. A: FlexMeasures helps you on (almost) all levels.
