# Participants

Gauri Dixit
Crystal Soo
Jonathan Qu
Mohammad Mortezazadeh
Brent Eubanks
Ali Katal
Alex Bi

# Timing

17:03 - Intro starts
17:09 - Use cases
17:11 - Roadmap
17:16 - Tutorial ends
17:23 - Roadmap ends
17:24 - Q&A starts (typo: caase -> case)
17:39 - Q&A ends
17:41 - Meeting ends

# Q&A

- Mohammad: microclimate building simulations, multiscale real-time simulation, we don't do anything with predictions yet. We use real-tim high-res microclimate data
- Nicolas: forecasts not needed in every use case
- Mohammad: Carbon emission, developing platform (like a digital twin) for visualisation and simulation of the past (2-year project)
- Nicolas: What you could use FM for: step through time hour by hour

- Alex: PhD, utility scale batteries, debate between open-source standalone EMS versus effort of system integrators to bring a vertically integrated product to market
- Nicolas: lot's of parties reimplementing the same thing, we should do better
- Alex: worked in software, I share that experience

- Jonathan: what is your experience with customers, those that are packaging software with hardware, don't they push back against this?
- Nicolas: True, we don't see interest from them. Parties (small and big) that have an integrator role & seek independence are finding us. Some device makers, Energy Service Companies

- Gauri: How about TOU arbitrage, DR (activation of primary and secondary reserves)?
- Felix: We currrently focus first on behind the meter optimization: TOU, self-consumption and peak shaving. No market integration yet (would also be in plugins, as the markets are different across the world). But you can use FM today to deal with activation signals to recompute local schedules.
- Nicolas: we typically write new applications for customers in the form of FM plugins before we even consider moving code into FlexMeasures
