# FlexMeasures TSC Meeting - 2022-05-12 17:00 CET

# Attendance

## Voting members

- Nicolas Höning
- Felix Claessen

## Others

- Thom Homsma
- Gordon Fairley
- Stan Kaal


# Agenda

- Introduction for new users
- New release: 0.10
- Demo tutorial, based on Docker image
- Demo of the new UI
- Roadmap discussion
- Q&A


# Notes: Roadmap

We keep a technological roadmap, currently for the next year, for planned work on FlexMeasures. Stakeholders can influence these plan.

One of Seita's clients asked  to support a particular scheduling use case. We had already planned the work, but this was a good reason to advance the work a little.

https://github.com/FlexMeasures/flexmeasures/discussions/429

Battery system in combination with other assets behind the meter. The scheduler itself is already equipped to deal with such cases.

1. Hook up relevant data to the scheduler
2. Run custom forecasting models within FlexMeasures
3. New cost component: usage-dependent depreciation of the battery

If you have needs in this area, let us know.

# Notes: Q&A

- Stan
  - What cases are relevant for FlexMeasures? We do pilot projects on congestion, with different cases: household level, entire areas, industrial parks.
- Nicolas
  - The main goal of FlexMeasures is to lower costs of development
  - What kind of assets are really driving flexibility (that's what FlexMeasures is operating on)? EV charging and electric heating?
- Stan
  - Most urgent ones are logistical companies with lots of roof area (much PV), no place on the grid. Looking to add battery systems. Expansion of park is more important than having a positive business case.
  - Some companies have EV charging in place, too.

- Gordon
  - Where does data come from? Where does software sit to manage batteries?
- Nicolas
  - FM in the cloud. Multi-tenancy, so one instance for multiple clients.
  - Local control
- Gordon
  - Integrate with CPO (Charge Point Operator)?
- Nicolas
  - Locally with Charge Point
  - Aurum has small box, we integrate with that in the cloud, too
  - Other integrations with ENTSO-E and OWM
- Gordon
  - Distribution station data?
- Nicolas
  - No integrations yet.
  - FlexMeasures has been made flexible to model such an asset, too, and to use it as optimization context


- Thom
  - Target audience?
- Nicolas
  - Business wise: larger customers and channel parties such as metering companies. Technically: anyone.